README.md, before:

This is the (temporary) home of efforts to advance public AI: publicly accessible AI models funded, provisioned, and governed by governments or other public bodies on behalf of their citizens.

## Documents

- [Main Collaborative Working Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ykjsXpTRZu4Obu9miJlkR9vIqWSLey5m0G4Utlm6HBg/edit), intended for all contributors, currently the best overview
- [Policy Pitch](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vTscz9Q0NicGogTcs2CpCKOFX-_GYvwKFRgp8G51DeZd-03Z17frbA1tCeybv2BE5szKG1k1VOriDX6/pub), intended for policymakers
- [Workshop Paper](https://openreview.net/pdf?id=TFWnViI30j), intended for ML researchers
- Edited notes from NYU Public AI Seminar on Sep. 14, 2023 (forthcoming)
- Policy Paper (forthcoming)

## Events

- November 16, 2023: BritGPT at Chatham House
- November 16, 2023: [Public & Civic AI Social #2](https://lu.ma/zo0vnony) at Newspeak House
- October 17, 2023: [Public & Civic AI Social #1](https://lu.ma/public-civic-ai-social) at Newspeak House
- September 21, 2023: [Talk at AI: Ethical Paths Forward](https://archive.org/details/dweb-meetup-september-2023-ai-ethical-paths-forward) hosted by the Internet Archive
- September 14, 2023: [Public AI Seminar](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/public-ai-seminar-tickets-716665073527) at the Engelberg Center on Innovation Law & Policy at NYU School of Law
- July 3 - July 10, 2023: [AI Palace](https://www.aipalace.org/) at Bueckeburg Palace

Still to be scheduled: technical meeting at MIT.

## Getting involved

Public AI is a public, collaborative effort. 

- To edit this site (e.g. to add an event or a relevant document), go to [https://github.com/manymodels/public-ai](https://github.com/manymodels/public-ai) and edit the README.md file directly.
- Join the [mailing list](https://groups.google.com/g/public-ai).
- If you have questions about public AI or want to figure out how to get involved, contact us: [hello@publicai.network](mailto:hello@publicai.network)

## Acknowledgements

A [wide range of people](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ykjsXpTRZu4Obu9miJlkR9vIqWSLey5m0G4Utlm6HBg/edit#heading=h.v36dq6wln0nk) have contributed ideas and time to the coalition to promote and build public AI. We gratefully acknowledge operational support by [Metagov](https://metagov.org), [Public Knowledge](https://publicknowledge.org), [Code for Science and Society](https://www.codeforsociety.org/), and [Chatham House](https://www.chathamhouse.org/).

## License
The work in this repository is licensed under the [Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/).

Commit message:

Adding more info about Public AI

README.md, after:

# We need public capacity in Artificial Intelligence for the public good.

## What Is Public AI?

- Public AI is **built by the public sector**: guaranteeing AI capacity is not limited to Big Tech.
- Public AI is **accessible**: ensuring that AI delivers benefits to all.
- Public AI is **accountable**: ensurin that AI reflects society's values.
- Public AI is being researched and built **right now** - all around the world.

[Learn More About Our Definition](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ykjsXpTRZu4Obu9miJlkR9vIqWSLey5m0G4Utlm6HBg/edit)

## Why We Need It

- Limited public capacity in AI is stifling our ability to actively shape the direction of society
- AI will become permanent essential infrastructure like train tracks and water pipelines - we can't leave this to the private sector.
- AI systems are growing in power and must reflect society's values - not the interests of shareholders.
- The private sector has a head start - and without investment in public capacity it will be hard to catch up

## Who We Are

We are a coalition advocating for the creation of Public AI. Our aims are to:

- Make sure public capacity building is part of the conversation about AI
- Make it easier to build Public AI by coordinating research efforts in the ML community
- Support policymakers seeking to impelement Public AI

## Learn More

- [Main Collaborative Working Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ykjsXpTRZu4Obu9miJlkR9vIqWSLey5m0G4Utlm6HBg/edit), intended for all contributors, currently the best overview
- [Policy Pitch](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vTscz9Q0NicGogTcs2CpCKOFX-_GYvwKFRgp8G51DeZd-03Z17frbA1tCeybv2BE5szKG1k1VOriDX6/pub), intended for policymakers
- [Workshop Paper](https://openreview.net/pdf?id=TFWnViI30j), intended for ML researchers
- Edited notes from NYU Public AI Seminar on Sep. 14, 2023 (forthcoming)
- Policy Paper (forthcoming)

## Events

- November 16, 2023: BritGPT at Chatham House
- November 16, 2023: [Public & Civic AI Social #2](https://lu.ma/zo0vnony) at Newspeak House
- October 17, 2023: [Public & Civic AI Social #1](https://lu.ma/public-civic-ai-social) at Newspeak House
- September 21, 2023: [Talk at AI: Ethical Paths Forward](https://archive.org/details/dweb-meetup-september-2023-ai-ethical-paths-forward) hosted by the Internet Archive
- September 14, 2023: [Public AI Seminar](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/public-ai-seminar-tickets-716665073527) at the Engelberg Center on Innovation Law & Policy at NYU School of Law
- July 3 - July 10, 2023: [AI Palace](https://www.aipalace.org/) at Bueckeburg Palace

Still to be scheduled: technical meeting at MIT.

## Getting involved

Public AI is a public, collaborative effort. 

- To edit this site (e.g. to add an event or a relevant document), go to [https://github.com/manymodels/public-ai](https://github.com/manymodels/public-ai) and edit the README.md file directly.
- Join the [mailing list](https://groups.google.com/g/public-ai).
- If you have questions about public AI or want to figure out how to get involved, contact us: [hello@publicai.network](mailto:hello@publicai.network)

## Acknowledgements

A [wide range of people](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ykjsXpTRZu4Obu9miJlkR9vIqWSLey5m0G4Utlm6HBg/edit#heading=h.v36dq6wln0nk) have contributed ideas and time to the coalition to promote and build public AI. We gratefully acknowledge operational support by [Metagov](https://metagov.org), [Public Knowledge](https://publicknowledge.org), [Code for Science and Society](https://www.codeforsociety.org/), and [Chatham House](https://www.chathamhouse.org/).

## License
The work in this repository is licensed under the [Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/).
